Dear TPHOLs 2009 Participant,

We would like to thank you for registering for TPHOLs 2009 and already
welcome you in Munich. In the following, we will provide you with some
useful information for your arrival and stay in Munich. More detailed
information can be found in the conference brochure available for
download at

  http://tphols.in.tum.de/conference_info.pdf

If you have any questions that are not answered herein, please do not
hesitate to contact us.

Have a safe journey, and see you soon in Munich!

The TPHOLs 2009 Organizing Team


CONFERENCE VENUE

The conference will take place at the Novotel Muenchen City. The contact
information of the hotel is: 

  Novotel Muenchen City
  Hochstrasse 11
  81669 Muenchen
  Germany

  Tel: +49 89 661070
  Fax: +49 89 66107999
  EMail: h3280@accor.com
  Web: http://www.novotel.com/gb/hotel-3280-novotel-muenchen-city/index.shtml

The nearest stop of public transportation (S-Bahn) is Rosenheimer Platz. For
detailed travel information see separate section. Also note that the conference
centre is located in a separate building, reachable by a short walk from the
lobby of the hotel.

WELCOME RECEPTION

There will be a welcome reception on Sunday, August 16th, from 18:00 to 20:00.
It will take place in the restaurant "Le Jardin" in the conference hotel.

REGISTRATION

A registration desk will be open during the reception on Sunday and also on all
days during the conference.

PRESENTATIONS

We will provide a laptop with Microsoft PowerPoint and Acrobat Reader. We
strongly advise presenters to send us their slides by Friday, August 14th,
to allow us enough time for making a test and uploading them for the
respective session.
Of course you can also bring your own laptop, but we would prefer to use
a single laptop in order to reduce the time needed to set up the 
presentations.

POSTERS

For the poster session on Tuesday, August 18th, panels that can accommodate
posters in A1 format will be available. The poster will be attached to the
panel with pins, which will be provided by us.

LUNCH BREAKS

Lunch and coffee will be provided during all conference and workshop days. 
Lunch will be served in the restaurant "Le Jardin" in the hotel.

INTERNET ACCESS

Free WLAN access will be provided at the conference centre from August 17th
until 21st. The name of the network is "m3connect" (but "novotel" and "vodafone"
should work as well). The network parameters are configured via DHCP. 
Note that the WLAN is a shared medium, meaning that the available capacity is
shared among all users, and each of the access points in the conference centre
can only handle a fixed number of connections at the same time. We therefore
kindly ask you to refrain from using any bandwidth-hungry applications, such
as video streaming, and from downloading large files. Please also disconnect
from the network whenever you do not need it.
A cable-based Internet access is available in the rooms of Novotel for an
extra fee. 

PROCEEDINGS

Hardcopies of the conference proceedings will be available at the registration
desk. The LNCS number of the proceedings is 5674. Moreover, ten hardcopies of
the Emerging Trends proceedings will be available at the registration desk.
The Emerging Trends proceedings can also be downloaded from

  http://tphols.in.tum.de/emerging-trends-TUM-I0916.pdf

EXCURSION AND BANQUET

On Wednesday, August 19th from 13:00 to about 00:15, there will be an excursion
to the lake Starnberg including a boat cruise, followed by the conference banquet.

COQ AND PLMMS WORKSHOPS

The workshops will take place on Friday, August 21st, at the same location as
the main conference. More information on the workshops can be found on the web
site of the conference.

TRAVEL

ARRIVING BY PLANE

Munich airport is located about 35km from the city centre. The airport has two
terminals that are adjacent to each other. From the airport, you can take a taxi
to the hotel, but it is a very expensive ride (> EUR 50).

Our advice is to take the cheaper option of public transportation using the
S-Bahn. These are local trains that depart from the central area of the
airport every 20 mins and run from 4 o'clock in the morning until past
midnight. Follow the "S-Bahn" sign to the trains. You have to take the
train labelled S8 (yellow-and-black line in the map below):

  http://www.munich-airport.de/en/consumer/anab/bahn/index.jsp

It is not recommended to take the S1 to the city centre: it brings you there
as well, but it takes a large detour. A plan of the whole public transportation
network of Munich can be downloaded in PDF from

  http://www.mvv-muenchen.de/web4archiv/objects/download/3/schnellbahnnetz_2009.pdf

If you are staying at the conference hotel, you have to get off at Rosenheimer
Platz (10 stops from the airport) and just follow the signs to the Novotel.
The trip from the airport to the hotel takes about 35 mins. You can query the
timetable and journey planner for the trip from the airport to the city centre at

  http://www.mvv-muenchen.de/en/home/passengeraeinformation/airtravellers/index.html

PURCHASING TRAIN TICKETS

Before taking the train, you have to purchase and validate your ticket. In
front of the entrance to the platform there is a ticket counter, which is
staffed during working hours, and automatic ticket machines. If you use the
machines you need to have enough coins or sufficiently small bank notes. The
machines give change. The sales people at the ticket counter also accept credit
cards (the sales people should be able to speak English).

If you plan to travel straight to the conference hotel, you have to purchase a
single ticket ("Einzelfahrkarte") 4 zones, valid for only one trip, price EUR 9.20

If on the arrival day you plan to go somewhere else, you can also buy
a single day ticket for the entire network ("Single-Tageskarte Gesamtnetz"),
price EUR 10.00

If you happen to travel together with up to four colleagues, you can save money
by buying a partner day ticket for the entire network ("Partner-Tageskarte
Gesamtnetz"), price EUR 18.00

Do not forget to validate the tickets before travelling! You can validate your
ticket by inserting it into one of the small blue machines close to the entrance
of the platform, which print the current date and time on the ticket.

ARRIVING BY TRAIN

Most of the intercity trains either arrive at Hauptbahnhof or at Ostbahnhof. From
Hauptbahnhof, you can take any S-Bahn in the direction of Ostbahnhof. If you are
staying at the conference hotel, you have to get off at Rosenheimer Platz. If your
train arrives at Ostbahnhof, get off there and take any S-Bahn in the direction of
the city centre / Hauptbahnhof. Note that Rosenheimer Platz is already the next
stop after Ostbahnhof. See above for information about ticket purchases.
